---
layout: post
title: Bit
---
I’ve been reading Charles Petzold‘s book CODE to gain a better understanding of the science of computers as I approach the Iron Yard. I find his method of explaining the physics and mathematics of communication and technology along with the history surrounding the corresponding discoveries and inventions highly informative, entertaining, and inspiring. I'd like to share a short excerpt:

>“By reducing our number system to just the binary digits 0 and 1, we’ve gone as far as we can go. We can’t get any simpler. Moreover, the binary number system bridges the gap between arithmetic and electricity.

>In previous chapters, we’ve been looking at switches and wires and lightbulbs and relays, and any of these objects can represent the binary digits 0 and 1:
>*A wire can be a binary digit. If current is flowing through the wire, the binary digit is 1. If not, the binary digit is 0.
A switch can be a binary digit. If the switch is on, or closed, the binary digit is 1. If the switch is off, or open, the binary digit is 0.
A lightbulb can be a binary digit. If the lightbulb is lit, the binary digit is 1. If the lightbulb is not lit, the binary digit is 0.
A telegraph relay can be a binary digit. If the relay is closed, the binary digit is 1. If the relay is at rest, the binary digit is 0.*

>Binary numbers have a whole lot to do with computers.
Sometime around 1948, the American mathematician John Wilder Tukey (born 1915) realized that the words binary digit were likely to assume a much greater importance in the years ahead as computers became more prevalent. He decided to coin a new, shorter word to replace the unwieldy five syllables of binary digit. He considered bigit and binit but settled instead on the short, simple, elegant, and perfectly lovely word bit.”

Excerpt From: Petzold, Charles. “CODE.”